#summary How to compile and run on Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx 32-bit.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

cam-occ2 doesn't do much, but with additional eyes I'll be able to squash bugs and improve the things that matter most to users - so I thought I'd write up instructions.

I normally develop on 64-bit Debian, but wrote this up because Ubuntu is so common.

= Required Packages =

*Install the following* (and all packages they require):
{{{
libopencascade-dev
libqt4-dev
g++
subversion
libxext-dev
libxmu-dev
}}}

= Get the Source =

From a terminal, type the following:
{{{
cd
svn checkout http://cam-occ.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ cam-occ
}}}

= Compile =

{{{
cd cam-occ
qmake
make
}}}
Look at the last few lines of output from make. If you don't see the word "error", make succeeded.

= Execute =

`./ubuntu.sh ngc-in/face-sc.canon`

The program will probably crash if threads are enabled ( as of r115, enabling threads would require modifying the source )

A file can also be chosen from the gcode menu - typing it on the command line isn't necessary. If EMC2's stand-alone interpreter can be found, gcode files can be interpreted. If it isn't available, the only files that can be interpreted are files containing the SAI's output. (At the moment, using the interpreter seems to be broken...)

If you don't have EMC2 already, you can install a simulator which includes the necessary binary. Use the following script to install: 
{{{
#!/bin/sh

#adapted from the script at http://wiki.linuxcnc.org/cgi-bin/emcinfo.pl?Installing_EMC2#On_Ubuntu_10_04_using_precompiled_EMC2_packages

gksudo -m "Enter your password to install EMC2-sim" true
gpg --keyserver pgpkeys.mit.edu --recv-key 8F374FEF
gpg -a --export 8F374FEF | sudo apt-key add -

sudo sh -c 'cat > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/linuxcnc.list' <<EOF
deb http://www.linuxcnc.org/emc2 lucid base emc2.4-sim
deb-src http://www.linuxcnc.org/emc2 lucid base emc2.4-sim
EOF

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -o Apt::Install-Recommends=true install emc2-sim

}}}
Or if you wish to compile it yourself, see [http://wiki.linuxcnc.org/cgi-bin/emcinfo.pl?Installing_EMC2#On_Ubuntu_10_04_or_8_04_from_source Compiling EMC2 from source] and [http://wiki.linuxcnc.org/cgi-bin/emcinfo.pl?Installing_EMC2#Building_emc2_simulator Building EMC2 simulator].